---
title: "Research"
permalink: /research/
author_profile: true
---

## Working Papers

**"The Value of Platform Endorsement,"** with Xu Zhang and Anja Lambrecht  
*Revise and Resubmit at Marketing Science*

> Many digital platforms with large product assortments endorse a select group of items to facilitate user choice. Popular examples of such platform endorsement are Amazon’s Choice and Airbnb’s Superhost. While it is intuitive that endorsed items may enjoy considerable benefits from increased sales, little is known about the effect of platform endorsement on unendorsed items and on the platform. Using data from a field experiment conducted on an online freelance platform, we examine the effect of platform endorsement on user search, as measured by the number of impressions and clicks, and purchase behavior. We find that platform endorsement greatly benefits endorsed services and leads to increase in search and 40.5% increase in sales for these. Surprisingly, platform endorsement also leads to increase in search and 2.1% increase in sales of unendorsed services. At a platform level, this translates into a 3.1% increase in orders. Given the large number of unendorsed services relative to endorsed services available on the platform, 66.8% of the total increase in orders on the platform stems from unendorsed services and 33.2% from endorsed services. We find that the increase in search and purchases is mainly driven by an increase in the overall quality perception of the services offered on the platform. We further explore heterogeneity in the effect of platform endorsement and find that the effect of platform endorsement on purchase is more pronounced for users with a higher propensity to purchase. 
Our findings have implications for platforms, merchants, and regulators. For digital platforms, our results demonstrate that platform endorsement is a useful tool to facilitate consumer search and increase platform revenue. For merchants, we document a significant benefit in terms of both consumer attention for and sales of endorsed items. For merchants whose items do not receive an endorsement, our results provide some reassurance that their sales may not be negatively impacted by the introduction of platform endorsement, but instead might even increase. Our results are relevant for regulators who are concerned about the anti-competitive nature and fairness of such practices. We show that even though platform endorsement disproportionately benefits endorsed items, it does not come at the cost of lower sales of other items on the platform.

[SSRN](https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=4144605){: .btn--research}

**"Gender Disparity in Online Reputation: Evidence from an Online Freelance Platform,"** with Anja Lambrecht and Xu Zhang

> Online ratings aim to reduce information asymmetry between buyers and sellers and help sellers make more informed purchase decisions. However, a concern arises if ratings are biased and do not reflect true quality. We investigate online ratings for services provided by male and female freelancers using a unique data set from an online labor market that elicits both public and private ratings from buyers after completion of a job. Public ratings are displayed on the website but the platform uses private ratings in internal evaluations as a more accurate measure of service quality. We find that conditional on the same private rating, ratings are higher for male than female freelancers. We propose this is a result of buyers' cultural beliefs and stereotypes and present three pieces of evidence as support. First, we show that the divergence between public ratings for male and female freelancers is most pronounced in categories with a higher share of male freelancers. Second, we demonstrate a greater effect for buyers from countries with greater gender inequality. Third, we show that in the US pattern is more pronounced for buyers from Republican states.  These results matter for freelancers and platforms as systematic differences in evaluation by gender can lead to undesirable consequences for platform participants.

**"Influencer Marketing: Content Attributes and Consumer Engagement,"** with Anja Lambrecht  

> The recent growth of influencer marketing means brands are more likely to contract with influencers to produce sponsored content. However, there is little empirical evidence regarding how consumers perceive such sponsored content relative to organic content. In this paper, we examine whether consumers engage less with sponsored content relative to organic content and what characterizes successful influencer content. We measure engagement as the number of likes. To examine these questions, we collect a dataset of more than 180,000 posts created by 510 Instagram influencers operating in United States. We distinguish between sponsored and organic posts using both advertising disclosure in posts and supervised learning. To account for endogeneity in advertising strategies, we leverage the timing of regulatory actions by the FTC and category-specific advertising trends as instrumental variables. We find that consumers engage less with sponsored content relative to organic content. To examine what attenuates the negative effect of an influencer's post being sponsored on likes, we rely on the insight that consumers prefer authenticity in marketing and propose that authenticity of content attenuates the negative effect of advertising on likes. We measure authenticity as the congruence of a post with other content shared by the influencer, the influencer's propensity to share brand-related content, the number of times a brand is mentioned in the post, and advertising disclosure. We estimate congruence of a post using LDA topic modelling. Our results demonstrate that authenticity of content attenuates the negative effect of advertising on likes. In view of regulatory interest and advertising disclosure out results demonstrate that consumers indeed respond differently to sponsored posts relative to organic posts. Our findings can inform influencers and advertisers on their content creation strategies and suggest that advertisers should provide influencers independence in creating sponsored content so as to maintain authenticity. Our findings are reassuring for influencers who worry that stringent disclosure regulations result in lower engagement.

## Work in progress

**"Attracting the Marginal: Online Advertising and Usage,"** with Anja Lambrecht

> Research has shown that online advertising is effective in attracting new consumers. However, it is less clear if consumers who adopt a product in response to online advertising have a different propensity to use the advertised product compared to consumers who adopt the product but have not viewed an online ad. We use field experimental data from an advertising campaign for a video streaming app to answer this question. In the experiment, consumers in the treatment group were exposed to online advertising for the app, while consumers in the control group were not exposed to online advertising. We find that consumers exposed to online advertising are indeed significantly more likely to install the app. However, our data suggest that online advertising is not effective in increasing usage of the app, measured as the number of sessions. On the contrary, we find that conditional on installation, consumers in the treatment group use the app significantly fewer times compared to consumers in the control group. Moreover, conditional on installation, consumers exposed to online advertising are directionally less likely to subscribe to the video streaming service relative to consumers not exposed to online advertising. This suggests that online advertising attracts marginal consumers who have a lower preference for the advertised app compared to consumers who install without having viewed the ad. Our findings are relevant to advertisers because they shed light on the limits of online advertising in acquiring profitable consumers.

You can download a PDF copy of my CV [here](/_pages/Mimansa_CV.pdf).

